Birdsong, of the more than 10,000 different species of birds, nearly half are classified
as songbirds.
They certainly live up to their name.
They may sing to attract a mate, or to defend their territory.
Before sunrise, many songbirds join in a robust display of singing, known as the dawn chorus.
From the delicate tones of the musician-ren, to the long and varied melodies of the night
and gale.
Birdsong can be remarkably complex.
Each song is a well-structured composition.
At times performed with incredible consistency.
Scientists analyze birdsong by creating spectrograms, which provide a visual representation
of the sounds.
Slowing down a recorded birdsong makes it possible to hear the individual notes that
make up each rapid-fire burst of song.
Birdsong using a vocal organ found nowhere else in the animal kingdom.
The Syrinks.
An intricate system of muscles and cartilage operate the Syrinks and are used, along with
the neck and bill, to generate a stunning range of sounds, such as whistles, trills,
buzzes, and chirps.
Unlike the voice box in humans and in some animals, which has a single chamber for producing
sound, the Syrinks has two separate chambers that work independently.
Using these chambers, some birds, such as the woodthrush, can produce two different
notes at the same time, essentially singing a duet, all on their own.
All of this complex vocal equipment requires a brain that can control it.
And the songbird brain is made for singing, with circuitry for controlling the Syrinks
and the Respiratory system, and another circuit dedicated to learning songs.
It's important because all songbirds that have been studied learn songs over time.
Primarily during their first few weeks of life, they memorize the songs unique to their
species and neighborhood.
As they get older, they practice until their rendition matches the one they've learned
from other birds.
Some birds learn not just one song, but a whole repertoire.
For example, the brown pressure can sing 2,000 different types of songs.
Each one uniquely structured.
Some birds even remix existing songs to perform one of a kind melodies.
This ability to improvise completely new songs is just one aspect of bird song that scientists
are still striving to understand.
The next time you hear a bird welcome the day with song, ask yourself, did the complex
vocal organ and singing ability of songbirds evolve?
Or was it designed?